---
layout: page
title:  Configure Azure DevTest Lab VMs using Chef
category: IaC
order: 6
---

In this lab we will use Chef to configure Azure DevTest Lab virtual machines in Azure.

<h3><span style="color: #0000CD;">DevOps MPP Course Source </span></h3>

- This lab is used in course <a href="https://www.edx.org/course/infrastructure-code-microsoft-devops200-2x-0" target="_blank"><span style="color: #0066cc;" color="#0066cc">DevOps200.2x: Infrastructure as Code</span></a> - Module 4.

<h3><span style="color: #0000CD;"> Pre-requisites:</span></h3>

- Completion of the lab <a href="https://microsoft.github.io/PartsUnlimitedMRP/iac/200.2x-IaC-DeployappwithChefonAzure.html" target="_blank"><span style="color: #0066cc;" color="#0066cc">Deploy app with Chef on Azure </span></a>. 


<h3><span style="color: #0000CD;"> Lab Tasks:</span></h3> 

- Create a DevTest Lab
- Configure DevTest Lab

  


<h3><span style="color: #0000CD;">Estimated Lab Time:</span></h3>

- approx. 30 minutes  

 
  
### Task 1: Create DevTest Lab  


1.	From the Azure portal, click **Create a Resource**. On the **New** blade, type **DevTest Labs** and when DevTest Labs appears click on it, read the text on the DevTest Lab blade and click **Create**

2.	From the Create a DevTest Lab blade, create a DevTest lab with the following settings: 

    - Lab name: **DevTestLab1** 
    - Subscription: **your Azure subscription** 
    - Location: **an Azure region close to the lab location** 
    - Auto-shutdown: **Disabled**


### Task 2: Configure DevTest Lab  

1.	In the Azure portal, navigate to DevTestLab1 and, on the DevTestLab1 blade, click **Configuration and policies**. 
2.	In the **POLICY SETTINGS** section, click **Allowed virtual machine sizes**. 
3.	Enable the Allowed virtual machine sizes setting and limit the size choice to **Standard D2_V2** only. 
4.	In the **POLICY SETTINGS** section, click **Virtual machines per user**. 
5.	Limit the number of virtual machines per user to 1. 
6.	In the **POLICY SETTINGS** section, click **Virtual machines per lab**. 
7.	Limit the number of virtual machines per lab to 5. 
8	In the **SCHEDULES** section, click **Auto-shutdown**. 
9.	Set the auto-shutdown to take place at 7:00PM your local time. 
10.	In the **SCHEDULES** section, click **Auto-start**. 
11.	Set the auto-start to take place at 7:00AM your local time on weekdays. 
12.	In the **EXTERNAL RESOURCES** section, click **Virtual networks**. 

13.	Note that the lab includes an auto-generated virtual network. You can modify its configuration, if needed. You can also customize the default behavior, which automatically assigns to VMs a shared public IP address. 
14.	In the **EXTERNAL RESOURCES** section, click **Repositories**. 
15.	Note that the lab is pre-configured with a **Public Repo** referencing https://github.com/Azure/azure-devtestlab.git , which includes artifacts and Azure Resource Manager templates you can use for VM deployment. You have the option of creating your own repositories (you can start by cloning the Public Repo). 
16.	In the **VIRTUAL MACHINE BASES** section, click **Marketplace images**. 
17.	Note that you have the option of modifying the default configuration, which allows al Azure Marketplace images as virtual machine bases and instead limiting selection to specific images only.  
18.	In the **VIRTUAL MACHINE BASES** section, click **Custom images (VHDs)**. 
19.	Note that you have the option of uploading custom images for lab VM deployment. 
20.	Scroll back to the **DevTestLab1** blade and click **My secrets**
21.	Create a secret named **WS2016Password** with the value **Pa55w.rd1234**
22.	On the **DevTestLab1** blade, click **Formulas (reusable bases)**. 
23.	Click **Add** and, on the **Choose a base** blade, click **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter**. 

24.	On the **Create formula (reusable bases)** blade, specify the following: 
    - Formula name: **WS2016DatacenterLabVM**
    - Description: **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter Lab VM** 
    - User name: **student** 
    - Password: **WS2016Password** 
    - Disk and size: accept the default (this is enforced via the **Allowed virtual machine sizes** setting you chose earlier) 
    - Virtual machine size: accept the default (this is enforced via the **Allowed virtual machine sizes** setting you chose earlier) 
    - Artifacts: **Chef Client** 
    - Chef Node Name: **labVM** 
    - Chef Server URL: **https://’fully_qualified_domain_name’/organizations/cheflabs**  where **’fully_qualified_domain_name’** represents the fully qualified DNS name of the Chef Server Azure VM 
    - validation Client Name: **cheflabs-validator** 
    - validation Key: **browse to the Downloads\chef-starter\chef-
    repo\.chef\cheflabs-validator.pem)** 
    - Run List: **recipe[learn_chef_iis]**
    - Client Configuration File: **leave blank** 
    - SSL Verification Mode: **none**
    - Chef environment tag: **_default**
    - Encrypted databag secret: **leave blank**
    - Chef Server SSL Certificate: **leave blank** 
    - Advanced settings: **leave at their defaults** 
25.	In the **MY LAB** section, click **My virtual machines** and then click **Add**. 
26.	On the **Choose a base** blade, click **WS2016DataCenterLabVM** formula. 
27.	On the **Virtual machine** name, in the **Virtual machine name** textbox, type **labVM0**, accept all remaining settings with their default values and click **Artifacts.** 
28.	On the **Add artifacts** blade, click the link **1 artifact(s) selected**. 
29.	On the **Selected artifacts** blade, click **Chef Client.** 
30.	On the **Add artifact** blade, set the **Chef Node Name** value to **labVM0**, verify that the validation key is set to **Downloads\chef-starter\chef-repo\.chef\cheflabs-validator.pem**, and click **OK**.  
31.	On the **Selected artifacts** blade, click **OK**. 
32.	On the **Add artifacts** blade, click **OK**. 
33.	On the **Virtual machine** blade, click **Create**. 
34.	Wait for the lab VM to be provisioned. Switch to the Chrome window and click the **Nodes** tab to verify that a newly provisioned VM is configured as a Chef client. 
  

<h3><span style="color: #0000CD;"> Summary</span></h3>

In this lab you have craeted and configured DevTest Labs
